Documentation: Tile (#1538)
iTwin/iTwinUI: apps/website/src/pages/docs/tile.mdx

<p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

<LiveExample src='Tile.main.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileMainExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

Tiles are containers that display content and actions pertaining to a single item or project. They should be easy to scan for relevant and actionable information. All text should be concise and placed in a way that clearly indicates informational hierarchy.

### Composition API

Users can build Tiles with subcomponents that are fully customizable.

We provide:

- `Tile.Wrapper`
- `Tile.ThumbnailArea`
- `Tile.ThumbnailPicture`
- `Tile.QuickAction`
- `Tile.TypeIndicator`
- `Tile.BadgeContainer`
- `Tile.IconButton`
- `Tile.Name`
- `Tile.NameIcon`
- `Tile.NameLabel`
- `Tile.Action`
- `Tile.ContentArea`
- `Tile.Description`
- `Tile.Metadata`
- `Tile.MoreOptions`
- `Tile.Buttons`

<LiveExample src='Tile.composition.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileCompositionExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Props API

> Users can also take advantage of properties provided for `Tile`. A list of available properties can be found [at the end](#props) of this documentation.

Reviewer: if it helps, you could look at expandable block documentation for ideas on how to separate composition and legacy apis. https://github.com/iTwin/iTwinUI/pull/1502/files#diff-19c324894ed0750aa99b244219e53d7e123753f73b594a0211986918f7bf4e03

> Users can also take advantage of properties provided for `Tile`. A list of available properties can be found [at the end](#props) of this documentation.

Author: Updated

> Users can also take advantage of properties provided for `Tile`. A list of available properties can be found [at the end](#props) of this documentation.

Author: Despite the wording, what's wrong with my choice of documenting both apis?

> Users can also take advantage of properties provided for `Tile`. A list of available properties can be found [at the end](#props) of this documentation.

Reviewer: The example is fine, but the wording just feels unhelpful in general.

"You can take advantage of props" is not some new revelation; users can always take advantage of props. It might help to describe these props or mention which ones.

But the key difference is between *directly* using `Tile` vs *only* using subcomponents. See "usage" section here: https://dev-itwinui.bentley.com/docs/expandableblock#usage

> Users can also take advantage of properties provided for `Tile`. A list of available properties can be found [at the end](#props) of this documentation.

Author: Updated, is it better now?

> Users can also take advantage of properties provided for `Tile`. A list of available properties can be found [at the end](#props) of this documentation.

Author: 2/3 find this approach "good enough". 
Leaving as is for now.

<LiveExample src='Tile.props.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TilePropsExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

## Variants

### Actionable

> Click on an actionable tile triggers an action.

Author: Updated a bit. Feel free to rewrite things if you want.

> Click on an actionable tile triggers an action.

Reviewer: this is good for now. we should create a separate page to document `LinkAction` in detail and link to it

<LiveExample src='Tile.actionable.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileActionableExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

> Tile can also link to another page.

Reviewer 2: Can mention why to use `href` in `<Tile.Action>` instead of wrapping the whole tile in `<a href="...">`

Author: Updated a bit. Feel free to rewrite things if you want.

<LiveExample src='Tile.anchorlink.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileAnchorLinkExample client:load style={{ padding: 50 }} />
</LiveExample>

> A tile might have one or two buttons to perform actions. There cannot be more than two button actions.

Reviewer 2: nit: grammar.

Also, would be good to add the reason why there shouldn't be more than two action buttons. Because technically, we allow passing any number of action buttons. So I'm guessing there are some UX reasons for this.

```suggestion
A tile may have one or two buttons to perform actions. But there should not be more than two button actions.
```

Author: Updated

<LiveExample src='Tile.quickactions.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileQuickActionsExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Avatar

Avatar tile may look a little different from the rest of the tiles as the thumbnail area instead displays an avatar icon and online status indicator.

<LiveExample src='Tile.avatar.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileAvatarExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Condensed

> A condensed tile may include as little as the title, thumbnail, and more menu.

Reviewer 2: Since it is called Tile.MoreOptions, I felt "more options" menu would be more appropriate

```suggestion
A condensed tile may include as little as the title, thumbnail, and the more option menu.
```

Author: Updated

<LiveExample src='Tile.condensed.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileCondensedExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Folder

> A folder tile has a slightly unique visual appearance to differentiate it from the rest of the tiles. The folder is very short compared to other tiles, therefore folders can not appear mixed in with the other tiles & must be separated like the example below. It is up to the development team to decide what metadata makes the most sense to display in the corner of the tile.

Reviewer 2: Metadata is in the bottom

```suggestion
A folder tile has a slightly unique visual appearance to differentiate it from the rest of the tiles. The folder is very short compared to other tiles, therefore folders can not appear mixed in with the other tiles & must be separated like the example below. It is up to the development team to decide what metadata makes the most sense to display in the bottom of the tile.
```

Author: Updated

<LiveExample src='Tile.folder.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileFolderExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

## State

### Status

Tiles can have `positive`, `warning` and `negative` status.

<LiveExample src='Tile.status.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileStatusExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Disabled

<LiveExample src='Tile.disabled.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileDisabledExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Loading

<LiveExample src='Tile.loading.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileLoadingExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Selected

A tile may be selected by the user to perform certain bulk tasks, such as moving them to another location, reordering them, duplicating projects, or deleting multiple at once.

<LiveExample src='Tile.selected.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileSelectedExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

> ## Usage

Author: Updated

> - Users may use [FluidGrid](https://itwin.github.io/iTwinUI-layouts/#/fluid-grid) from [`itwinui-layouts`](https://github.com/iTwin/iTwinUI-layouts) package to display an array of Tiles.

Reviewer 2: nit: Grammar 

```suggestion
- Users may use [FluidGrid](https://itwin.github.io/iTwinUI-layouts/#/fluid-grid) from the [`itwinui-layouts`](https://github.com/iTwin/iTwinUI-layouts) package to display an array of Tiles.
```

Author: Updated

> - Users may use [FluidGrid](https://itwin.github.io/iTwinUI-layouts/#/fluid-grid) from [`itwinui-layouts`](https://github.com/iTwin/iTwinUI-layouts) package to display an array of Tiles.

Author: Updated

We provide:

- `Tile.Wrapper`
- `Tile.ThumbnailArea`
- `Tile.ThumbnailPicture`
- `Tile.QuickAction`
- `Tile.TypeIndicator`
- `Tile.BadgeContainer`
- `Tile.IconButton`
- `Tile.Name`
- `Tile.NameIcon`
- `Tile.NameLabel`
- `Tile.Action`
- `Tile.ContentArea`
- `Tile.Description`
- `Tile.Metadata`
- `Tile.MoreOptions`
- `Tile.Buttons`

<LiveExample src='Tile.composition.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileCompositionExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Props API

You can use Tile directly with name, thumbnail, description and other props. This pattern can suffice for simple cases.

A list of all available props can be found [at the end](#props) of this page.

<LiveExample src='Tile.props.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TilePropsExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

## Variants

### Actionable

Click on an actionable tile triggers an action.

Actionable tiles have Tile.Action wrapped around tile name. It adds action to the name, increases click or touch target for said action and keeps accessibility for the best user experience.

<LiveExample src='Tile.actionable.tsx'>
  <AllExamples.TileActionableExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

> Tile can also link to another page. Add `href` prop to the Tile.Action to make whole tile an anchor link.

Reviewer 2: Continuation of https://github.com/iTwin/iTwinUI/pull/1538#discussion_r1311522844

```suggestion
Tile can also link to another page. Add `href` prop to the Tile.Action to make whole tile an anchor link. This is because manually wrapping the Tile with an `<a href="...">` is not recommeneded for accessibility reasons.
```

Author: Updated.
